# Netflix Data Cleaning Project:

**Project Overview:
Ihis project focus on Cleaning & Processing the raw Netflix Titles dataset using Python & Pandas library. goal was simple to handle missing values & standardized the data to make it ready for analysis.

# Key Tasks Performed:
1. **Handling Missing Values:** Filled missing data in 'director', 'cast', and 'country' columns with 'Unknown'.
2. **Standardizing Formats:** Standardized the 'date_added' column to a uniform format.
3. **Data Cleaning:** Converted all column headers to lowercase and replaced spaces with underscores for better coding efficiency.
4. **Duplicate Removal:** Checked for and removed duplicate entries to ensure data integrity.

# Files in this Repository:
* `cleaning_script_project.py`: The Python script containing the cleaning logic.
* `netflix_data.csv`: The raw dataset.
* `cleaned_netflix_data.csv`: The final processed dataset generated by the script.

# How to Run:
1. Clone the repository.
2. Install Pandas: `pip install pandas`.
3. Run script: `python cleaning_script_project.py`.
   
### CORE CLEANING LOGIC:
import pandas as pd
df = pd.read_csv('netflix_data.csv')
    print("Success: Dataset loaded successfully.")
 df['director'] = df['director'].fillna('unknown')
    df['cast'] = df['cast'].fillna('unknown')
    df['country'] = df['country'].fillna('unknown')
df.dropna(subset=['date_added', 'rating', 'duration'], inplace=True)
 df.columns = [col.lower().replace(' ', '_') for col in df.columns]
df.drop_duplicates(inplace=True)
df.to_csv('cleaned_netflix_data.csv', index=False)
    print("Success: Cleaned data saved as 'cleaned_netflix_data.csv'.")

except FileNotFoundError:
    print("Error: The file 'netflix_data.csv' was not found in the folder.")
except Exception as e:
    print(f"An unexpected error occurred: {e}")
